---
title: Which insurance option is best for me
---

Insurance can be acquired through an employer, the public market, or privately. Private plans are not income-based, eliminating the need for annual re-enrollment. These plans are on a PPO network which provides nationwide coverage and access to a large network of doctors and hospitals. These plans may have higher premiums in some cases but can be tax-deductible and offer fixed-rate guarantees for a certain time period. Every situation is different, however, if you're relatively healthy without any major medical history (ex. heart attack, stroke, cancer) you could be overpaying for health insurance coverage on the public market. Some private plans are medically underwritten and catered towards those who do not currently have severe medical needs or require weekly or monthly doctor visits. This option is more exclusive and requires approval but typically has $0 deductible plans available. Rates are not income-based, eliminating the need for annual re-enrollment. This is a popular option amongst the self-employed and those who travel!

Public insurance (ACA/Obamacare) is catered towards those with pre-existing conditions requiring more frequent medical care and/or medications . These plans are available to everyone and typically have higher deductibles and more restrictive networks. These plans provide income based discounts on coverage and offer lower premiums based on your annual income making them a great choice for low-income individuals and families or those with current and/or chronic medical needs. Annual re-enrollment is necessary to update income information during the open enrollment period from November 1st to January 16th.

Employer plans can be a great option since most companies offering this coverage are required to pay at least 50% of the employees premium. However, adding family members to your plan like a spouse or dependents can skyrocket the premium since there is no requirement for the employer to cover family members.
